before he was a presidential candidate
I've been saying for years keep the oil
keep the oil don't let him have the oil
before he was a reality TV star he afire
Donald Trump was a New York tabloid
fixture all through the 1980s Trump was
busy building something new and it
wasn't a skyscraper billionaire
developer Donald Trump has put his name
on a New York City hotel shopping center
and apartment buildings as well as a
casino in Atlantic City and now he's
going to put his name on a big piece of
Eastern Airlines Trump was creating a
public persona one that could be both
funny and demeaning arrogant and somehow
in touch with the common man I sort of
love and hate him at the same time I
mean I think he has you know a
monumental ego he comes off being very
arrogant yeah he said he said he's hairy
I like it you ain't got a me got
everything he often did this by picking
fights he said I think Donald Trump is
an artful liar I think he is a greedy
vicious and arrogant man what is that
supposed to be a compliment or not I'm
not sure he waged a year's long battle
with New York City Mayor Ed Koch I hope
that New York City has a different mayor
at some point because I think I got just
a total disaster he's been a very bad
man for the city he helped launch a
competitor to the NFL called the US
Football League and then launched a
lawsuit against the NFL
when the USFL failed the jury in the
case delivered its verdict it ruled the
NFL did indeed monopolize pro football
but it awarded damages of just one
dollar and in one of his biggest fights
of the 1980s he went up against media
mogul Merv Griffin in a fight over a
casino in Atlantic City people realize
now that Merv made a bad deal it's
unfortunate that he's taken a fall
but he has taken the fall nothing much I
can do about it
Dom love that perception I won I won
that one he is still you know a year
later standing in New York when I won I
won I won he wants to make sure
everybody in America knows he won but
the Donald Trump we know today is more
than just a boastful brawler that's
because there's one more tactic that
Trump apparently learned in the 80s and
uses to great effect on the campaign
trail today keep people guessing about
any long-term plans mr. Trump what's
left in your life you're 33 years old
you're worth all this money you say you
didn't say that you want to be worth a
billion now I really don't I just want
to keep busy and keep active could a
billion dollars buy the White House what
do you think well I don't run again I
know a lot of the politicians I like a
lot of the politicians their friends him
Trump carefully cultivated speculation
about his future in 1987 he ran a
full-page ad in major newspapers that
read like a political manifesto a
blow-up of the ad is now on display at
Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue the ad was
irresistible to the New York press and
the move kept Trump's name in the news
comp has said quite seriously that he's
a good enough bargainer to negotiate a
nuclear disarmament treaty with the
Russians this is not a wealthy country
people think America you know well isn't
that the Japanese are saying that what a
wealthy country I mean they're saying it
in their laughing country is losing 200
billion dollars a year we ought to go in
the next time they fire so much as a
bullet of one of our ships we ought to
go in and take over their oil with each
of these instances Trump refined his
playbook his attacks Steve you're gonna
have to start pushing these people now a
little bit cuz it's getting a little
ridiculous as far as I'm concerned these
boasts will probably sell an extra
10,000 season tickets and that's a lot
of tickets and his shifting positions do
you have the the genes to be a
successful politician well you never
really know I think I'm pretty outspoken
and that's not probably a good thing in
terms of a politician but it's a good
thing if you ever got elected you can
really do a job now even back in the 80s
many found Trump's over-the-top
personality distasteful what may be most
discouraging of all is that Palm Beach
will accept almost anything if it's got
enough money but somehow it will not
accept Donald Trump
but by playing the role of an
unpredictable bully with the Midas touch
Trump showed he couldn't easily be
ignored I believe that perhaps I'm
portrayed differently than I I actually
am I believe I'm portrayed in a rougher
sense than the actual product and I hope
that's true because I hope the actual
product is a lot more mellow than the
portrayal and that may be his biggest
asset of all when people attack Trump
they reinforce the version of Trump that
Trump wants people to see and inevitably
that keeps Trump's name in the news that
doesn't matter because I'm not running
for office
hey NBC News fans thanks for checking
out our YouTube channel subscribe by
clicking on that button down here and
click on any of the videos over here to
watch the latest interviews show
highlights and digital exclusives thanks
for watching